In this example we demonstrate how ENCORE can be applied to calculate the
similarity measures between ensembles as obtained e.g. from molecular
dynamics simulations. In the example we use three ensembles, with each
ensemble obtained from a molecular dynamics simulation of the protein
Cyclophilin A using different force fields:

traj_c22-star.xtc          : CHARMM22*
traj_c36.xtc   		   : CHARMM36
traj_ff99sb-ildn-star.xtc  : AMBER99SB*-ILDN

We use the harmonic (HES), clustering (CES) and dimensionality
reduction-based (DRES) methods to estimate how much the ensembles
sampled by these force fields overlap. Running the examples, assuming
that ENCORE is correctly installed and that the set_environment.sh
file is properly set up, is just a matter of running the .sh files in
the directory (hes.sh, ces.sh, dres.sh), each of them using one of the
three methods detailed in the paper. Each of these files also contain
comments that provide more details on how the commands work.

IMPORTANT: In this example, please run ces.sh before dres.sh. This is
because ces.sh will save the -RMSD matrix as a file on disk. The
dimensionality reduction method (used in the script dres.sh) loads the
matrix and changes the signs of its elements instead of recomputing it
from scratch, thus saving computational time. If you want to calculate
the ensemble similarity using only dimensionality reduction and not
clustering, you can of course modify the dimred.sh script to calculate
the matrix.



